README.md, before:

# Anglar I18n Editor for VSCode (`vscode-ng-i18n-editor`)

This extension provides an editor for Angular generated xliff file. If you're struggling handle the xliff files that generated by AngularCLI, this extension might be helpful for you.

## Features

### Translation Editor

This extension provides a friendly to use editor for users to translate their apps.

#### 1. Save and Lock Your Translation

After you translated one trans unit, you can click `ctrl` + `enter` to save and lock (`signed-off`) your translation.

![Overview](/doc/overview.gif "Overview")

_Translations that mark as `signed-off` could not be edit in the editor, unless you unlock them._

#### 2. Reveal Code Context

The code context shows the location where the translation will be apply to.

![Reveal Code Context](/doc/code-context.gif "Reveal Code Context")

This will help you write better translations.

### Translation Memory (TM)

Translation memory is to store your tranlation history and will give you suggestion for your transunits.

**_This feature is on the roadmap but not yet started._**

## Requirements

This extension will only be activated when the extension setting file is under your workspace root directory. Make sure you place the `.ngI18nconfig` file correctly.

## Extension Settings

Extension setting is a json file that placed in the root directory of the workspace, using the name `.ngI18nconfig` (case sensitive). The following is the configuration options:

| Path                | Object Type | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `locales`           | `string[]`  | The locales setting accepts one ore more target locales that your application is going to be translated into. See: [Locale Setting](#locale-setting).             |
| `editor`            | `object`    | The editor setting is to control the behavior of I18n editor as well as the background task manager. See: [Editor Setting](#editor-setting)                       |
| `editor.taskConfig` | `object`    | The `editor.taskConfig` is to control the background task manager, which executes the transunit saving commands. See: [Task Config Setting](#task-config-setting) |

### Locale Setting

The locales setting accepts one ore more target locales that your application is going to be translated into.

```json
{
  "locales": ["zh-CN", "ja-JP"]
}
```

### Editor Setting

The editor setting is to control the behavior of I18n editor as well as the background task manager.

#### `editor.translationSaveOn: 'blur' | 'change' | 'manual'`

Three types of trigger type that tell the editor when to save your translation. The default value is `blur`.

**Only support `blur` by far**.

#### `editor.messageLocations`

The message locations is the location collection for the Angular Compiler extracted xliff files. They should
ends with `.xliff` or `.xlf`.

```json
{
  "editor": {
    "messageLocations": ["src/locale/messages.xlf"]
  }
}
```

#### Task Config Setting

The `editor.taskConfig` is to control the background task manager, which executes the transunit saving commands.

```json
{
  "editor": {
    "taskConfig": {
      "intervalSeconds": 5,
      "itemEachPack": 10
    }
  }
}
```

##### `editor.taskConfig.intervalSeconds?: number`

The frequency of task checking. Default value is `5`.

##### `editor.taskConfig.itemEachPack?: number`

The maximum command size for each task execution. Default value is `10`.

### Translation Memory Setting (`tm`)

(CURRENTLY NOT AVAILABLE)

## Feedback or Issues

If you do like this extension, please give me feedback so I know you are using it. If you do like more features, tell me and we can start a discussion.

If you have any problems, go and fire an issue.

## Release Notes

**The current version is just build for temporary use. Please verify your translation file before building your application into the target locale.**

## Contact

[roman.the.dev@hotmail.com](mailto:roman.the.dev@hotmail.com?subject=[vscode-ng-i18n-editor])

Commit message:

* Add: two new editor setting 'mode' and 'translationFileNamePattern' * Update: FileUtils to support the translation file name pattern setting * Update: Readme for the two new settings.

README.md, after:

# Anglar I18n Editor for VSCode (`vscode-ng-i18n-editor`)

This extension provides an editor for Angular generated xliff file. If you're struggling handle the xliff files that generated by AngularCLI, this extension might be helpful for you.

## Features

### Translation Editor

This extension provides a friendly to use editor for users to translate their apps.

#### 1. Save and Lock Your Translation

After you translated one trans unit, you can click `ctrl` + `enter` to save and lock (`signed-off`) your translation.

![Overview](/doc/overview.gif "Overview")

_Translations that mark as `signed-off` could not be edit in the editor, unless you unlock them._

#### 2. Reveal Code Context

The code context shows the location where the translation will be apply to.

![Reveal Code Context](/doc/code-context.gif "Reveal Code Context")

This will help you write better translations.

### Translation Memory (TM)

Translation memory is to store your tranlation history and will give you suggestion for your transunits.

**_This feature is on the roadmap but not yet started._**

## Requirements

This extension will only be activated when the extension setting file is under your workspace root directory. Make sure you place the `.ngI18nconfig` file correctly.

## Extension Settings

Extension setting is a json file that placed in the root directory of the workspace, using the name `.ngI18nconfig` (case sensitive). The following is the configuration options:

| Path                | Object Type | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `locales`           | `string[]`  | The locales setting accepts one ore more target locales that your application is going to be translated into. See: [Locale Setting](#locale-setting).             |
| `editor`            | `object`    | The editor setting is to control the behavior of I18n editor as well as the background task manager. See: [Editor Setting](#editor-setting)                       |
| `editor.taskConfig` | `object`    | The `editor.taskConfig` is to control the background task manager, which executes the transunit saving commands. See: [Task Config Setting](#task-config-setting) |

### Locale Setting

The locales setting accepts one ore more target locales that your application is going to be translated into.

```json
{
  "locales": ["zh-CN", "ja-JP"]
}
```

### Editor Setting

The editor setting is to control the behavior of I18n editor as well as the background task manager.

#### `editor.translationSaveOn: 'blur' | 'change' | 'manual'`

Three types of trigger type that tell the editor when to save your translation. The default value is `blur`.

**Only support `blur` by far**.

#### `editor.messageLocations: string[]`

The message locations is the location collection for the Angular Compiler extracted xliff files. They should
ends with `.xliff` or `.xlf`.

```json
{
  "editor": {
    "messageLocations": ["src/locale/messages.xlf"]
  }
}
```

#### `editor.translationFileNamePattern: string`

The pattern to locate the target translation file. **The default value is `${name}(${lang}-${region})`**.

- `${name}`: the source xliff file name;
- `${lang}`: the target language;
- `${region}`： the region where the language in use.

_`${lang}` and `${region}` is the consist parts of [LCID](https://www.science.co.il/language/Locale-codes.php)_

#### `editor.mode: 'default' | 'target-file'`

Editor mode.

- The `default` mode:

  Use the xliff specify in the `messageLocations` as source and auto generate the target translation xliff based on the given `translationFileNamePattern`;

- The `target-file` mode:

  Edit directly on the target xliff (based on the `messageLocations` and the given `translationFileNamePattern`)

#### Task Config Setting

The `editor.taskConfig` is to control the background task manager, which executes the transunit saving commands.

```json
{
  "editor": {
    "taskConfig": {
      "intervalSeconds": 5,
      "itemEachPack": 10
    }
  }
}
```

##### `editor.taskConfig.intervalSeconds?: number`

The frequency of task checking. Default value is `5`.

##### `editor.taskConfig.itemEachPack?: number`

The maximum command size for each task execution. Default value is `10`.

### Translation Memory Setting (`tm`)

(CURRENTLY NOT AVAILABLE)

## Feedback or Issues

If you do like this extension, please give me feedback so I know you are using it. If you do like more features, tell me and we can start a discussion.

If you have any problems, go and fire an issue.

## Release Notes

**The current version is just build for temporary use. Please verify your translation file before building your application into the target locale.**

## Contact

[roman.the.dev@hotmail.com](mailto:roman.the.dev@hotmail.com?subject=[vscode-ng-i18n-editor])
